docker.txt



Docker Education :: What is docker :: 

https://www.educative.io/blog/docker-with-rails

................


Dockerizing a Ruby on Rails Application :::  

https://semaphoreci.com/community/tutorials/dockerizing-a-ruby-on-rails-application


................

https://semaphoreci.com/community/tutorials/dockerizing-a-ruby-on-rails-application


The basic Dockerfile commands are:

FROM: defines what image to start from. We’ll use the official Ruby image as a starting point.
ARG: specifies build-time argument variables. If your workstation is running Linux, the user and group ids should match between the host and the docker container.
RUN: executes commands inside the container. In the example, we use it to create a user and group and then to install the Rails gems.
ENV: defines environment variables.
WORKDIR: changes the current directory inside the container.
USER: changes the active user inside the container.
CMD: defines the program to run when the container starts.

................


Basic Concepts and Terms to Know

Docker Image: A file that contains a blueprint to construct a container to run in Docker. Essentially, it’s a list of what any container of that type should contain.

Docker Container: A runtime instance of an image. Each container consists of a Docker image, an execution environment, and a standard set of instructions.

Dockerfile: A file that contains all the commands to build an image that you would execute manually. This allows Docker to automatically create images.

Docker Compose: A built-in Docker tool used to define and run more complex Docker applications. Its main benefit is to be able to define multi-container applications in a single file, which can be launched with a single command.

Dockerize/Dockerized: The act of packaging an application using Docker. It’s often used to describe results after an application has been integrated with Docker.

Ruby Script: Commands in the Ruby programming language used to make application components dynamic.

Rails Server: A local webserver available on your browser at http://localhost:3000. Used to test applications without a dedicated server.

Rails Gemfile A file used for describing file dependencies in a Ruby program. You can add these files to a container to easily add dependencies to your application.


................

Five Main features of Docker :: 

The five main features of Docker are:

Packaging: The ability to package software into a reusable, shareable format known as images.

Distribution: The ability to easily share packaged software (images) with other people and deploy it to different machines.

Runtime: The ability to run, pause, restart or stop packaged software in a reliable way.

Infrastructure creation: Creating virtual machines ready to run Docker containers.

Orchestration and scaling: Managing the release of software to a single Docker node or across an entire cluster.


................

The main features of Rails are:

Automated Testing: Rails provides built-in testing, so test cases are easier to write and execute.

Scaffolding: This allows you to easily create models that manage data, views that enable user-data interaction, and controllers that manage model-view communication.

Active Record: Rails operates on the assumption that you should ensure data access logic as part of the object to educate users on how to read and write to the database. Objects carry persistent data and behavior that operates on that data.

Rails Community: Rails has a very active community with regular product fixes and updates from the developers.

Convention over Configuration: Rails sets a correct way to construct apps that fit most use cases is more important than making configuration options for everything. The framework makes decisions for you to boost productivity.


................






